
FINAL 

Along with the project/code itself, each pair/mob will submit a two to
three-page (excluding references and appendix) written companion
document. These are short because they are supplementary, and get
directly to the point. Try to cut out fluff or filler words /
sentences; anything for which the converse is obviously false. Submit
it as a zip file of all the contents, or simply a pdf with links to a
repository I can access.

Here's roughly how I'll assess them:

25% - Working automated proof of your theorem and all required lemmas,
without any of the ACL2 "cheats" or "hacks" to turn off checking or
program mode, or what have you. A baseline, right off-the-bat.

5% - Submit a certificate or email showing your having made an
appointment with the writing center the week after we return from
Thanksgiving break, to go over grammar, spelling, and mechanics. This
is another, right off the bat. Download and include this email in the
final submission, and you can put it either in your repo or in a .zip
file. As you wish.

25% Report Style/Writing. - I'll be less persnickety than I was on
your proposals last time, but I'll pay more attention than I had on
your overall projects last time. You all will pay more attention to
[the tech writing style guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/code/hw4.lisp)
from the last one of these, and go over w/the writing center
folk. Tell them all the things you're linting for, and they'll
help. Some of you might consider a tool like
http://www.hemingwayapp.com/. Put all your names on that report so I
know who you are.

15% Presentation/Demonstration. Just to show me that your proof works,
and walk me through your document. Let me see that everyone has an
equal understanding of the problem and the result, and answer my
interested questions. You needn't put together a slide deck.

30% Code/Proof "Quality" 
 * Signatures (which we get w/contracts) and purpose statements. 
 * An English statement of what each lemma gives.
 * Clean up the comments, clear out the unwanted or commented "proof detritus."
 * Have your names on it so I know who you all are.


Below, you can find a sample basic layout and structure. You needn't
follow this precisely, but these are the components I'll look for. You
can also look to Shankar for inspiration, and also the McBride piece I
mentioned on Piazza, if that gives you better intuition.

Intro

Briefly and broadly describe here the overall structure of the proof
itself including any auxiliary proof infrastructure that you had to
build. Remind me, specifically and in English, the claim that you are
proving/proved.

Overall structure

Describe and recall the overall context: 
 * the data type(s) you're discussing, if they're non-trivial or interesting choices
 * the function(s) you're working with, both the purpose and any interesting "twists" we made

You should include here also a link to the executable .lisp ACL2
source code for the proof you've written. If you needed to use or to
find any additional complicated ACL2 machinery beyond defthm and
implications (additional guard information, hints non-rewrite rules)
mention those details here. If you needed to use any auxiliary ACL2
libraries (e.g. sets), mention those details here. If there were any
similar proofs or proof structures that you found insightful or would
benefit the reader, reference them here.

Walkthrough (You may divide this over several sections)

Bring the reader through the proof. To prove a clearly stated theorem,
often times you have to also prove more opaque lemmas along the
way. Interpret your less clear lemmas, and what they say in English,
and why they are necessary for the ultimate claim. Break the overall
structure of your proof down into bite-sized chunks.

 * Did any of your lemmas require sub-lemmata? 
 ** Which and what? 
 * For which subsequent claims were each of the lemmata you show
   necessary?

Personal Progress

Whereas you write the other parts from the perspective of someone who
has now learned the answer presenting it in the best light and easiest
form for a reader, here you can discuss how it *actually* came
about. Not the problem as-its-best-explained, but the
problem-as-you-historically-solved-it.

 * Where did you get stuck and need to backtrack or regroup?
 * Where did you need to step back and take a different approach to
   prove your ultimate claim?
 * Did you try to prove any claims that were in fact invalid? 
 * Were there any simpler claims you proved first, as a "trial run"? 

Conclusions and Next steps. 

 * If this claim emerged from your work in another class, what was it? 
 * What subsequent corollaries (that do not trivially, instantly fall
   out of your proof) are closer as a result of your work thus
   far?
 * Would this be useful, beyond certifying *that* the property holds,
   as an *explanatory* tool showing *why* it holds?

References
References, if any. 

Appendix 

The .lisp file itself 


DRAFT 

Status. This can be in a rougher shape, and I won't grade on super
harshly on grammar. But it should have the content of what you've done
(try to be mostly done!) and what you're prepared to do next and how
you're going to do it. Submit it as a zip file of all the contents, or
simply a pdf with links to a repository I can access.

Like last time, this should include enough detail to convince the
reader that you've got a good problem you understand, that you've
already gotten pretty far in attacking it, and you have a pretty firm
idea what you have left to do to finish it off. This last part should
not be vague or gauzy. It should not approach the [Feynman problem
solving algorithm](https://wiki.c2.com/?FeynmanAlgorithm). Strongly
consider adding a proof-by-hand of the remainder of what you have yet
to automate. Use this to make sure you are sufficiently far along, not
over your heads, and that you have or are working to get the resources
you need to proceed.  Read the friendly manual, and co. Also, do not
hesitate to reach out; you can update me before this first due
date. We can talk if you get stuck. I'm not super scary, nor do I want
to be.

25%: Code status, thus far (this should be a load and run in ACL2s)
25%: Clarity and scope of setup and explanation of work thus far.
25%: Description of current concerns and issues, and outstanding to-do. 
25%: Overall first draft report content/status. 



